---
layout: series
title:  "43rd HiRSE Seminar"
start_date: 2025-06-23
location: virtual
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

On Monday 23rd June at 2pm CEST, **[Sabine Grießbach](https://www.fz-juelich.de/profile/griessbach_s)** from Jülich Supercomputing Centre (FZJ) will join us at the HiRSE Seminar Series to talk about '**Leveraging Earth System Science to Exascale**' and the German National Earth System Modelling Support Team. 
<!--more-->

**Title**: Leveraging Earth System Science to Exascale: The German National Earth System Modelling Support Team

**Abstract**: Modeling the Earth system is a complex, multidisciplinary endeavor encompassing various domains including the atmosphere, ocean, land surface, biosphere, ice sheets, and chemistry. In Germany, numerous research institutions actively work on Earth system modeling (ESM). ESM covers a wide range of spatial and temporal scales — from molecular
interactions to global phenomena, and from hourly weather forecasts to paleo-climatic changes spanning millennia. The national Earth System Modeling project (natESM) aims to integrate these diverse modeling efforts. An important aspect is preparing the models for exascale computing.

Therefore, the German Climate Consortium (Deutsches Klima-Konsortium)
has established a national ESM support team, funded by the German
Federal Ministry for Education and Research. This support team,
coordinated by the Deutsches Klimarechenzentrum (DKRZ) in Hamburg, plays
a key role in the German strategy for advancing ESM capabilities. Its
main objective is to bring together the German ESM community and enable
the coupling of individual model components into more comprehensive,
interoperable Earth system models.

The support team is comprised of four research software engineers based
at DKRZ and the Jülich Supercomputing Centre (JSC). Through support
sprints lasting up to six months, the team provides assistance to German
ESM developers for adapting ESM codes to modern high-performance
computing (HPC) architectures and facilitating model coupling.
Participation in the natESM project requires that all supported codes
are open source. ESM developers can apply for support through a
continuously open rolling call. Knowledge and insights gained during the
support sprints are shared through dedicated workshops and targeted
trainings.

Experience from the first three years of the project and an outlook to
the hopefully upcoming second phase will be given.




------
A **recording** of this seminar can be found on the [HiRSE YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o-ad8pB8hrs)

**Slides** from this presentation can be found in the [HiRSE Zenodo Community](https://zenodo.org/records/15736834)
