---
layout: series
title:  "44th HiRSE Seminar"
start_date: 2025-07-08
location: virtual
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

On Tuesday 8th July at 11am CEST, **[Judith Hartstein](https://www.dzhw.eu/gmbh/mitarbeiter?m_id=759)** from the [German Centre for Higher Education Research and Science Studies (DZHW)](https://www.dzhw.eu/index_html) will join us at the HiRSE Seminar Series to talk about '**Research practices in a digitalized world: Research software, mundane software and programming languages in research**.'
<!--more-->

**Abstract**: For most researchers across disciplines, software use is an everyday practice. Currently, specialized ‘research software’ is dominating the discourse on using software for research and thereby putting empirical research practices into the foreground. However, data analysis is not the only way of sensemaking in science, but research pipelines are populated with diverse types of software and digital technologies, e.g. software tailored for research purposes („research software“), software covering broader tasks which are not specific to science („mundane software“), and programming languages. From a sociological perspective, communalities and differences are of interest: Which software or technology do researchers use for which purpose? How do researchers come to trust software they use for research? And how do practices differ between research fields?

The talk will present empirical results from two recent trend surveys: a trend survey on research data infrastructures (n~1000), which was conducted in May 2024 in the context of Base4NFDI, and the DZHW Science Survey of 2023, which had a module included on trust within science (n ~1700). Focal results include the observation that there is a gap between software usage and software mentioning in publications, that most researchers use proprietary software and platforms which poses a challenge to the FAIRification of the research process in general, and that field differences deserve special attention when building research data-and-software infrastructure.





------

Slides from this presentation can be found in the [HiRSE Zenodo Community](https://zenodo.org/records/15852934)
