---
layout: series
title:  "51st HiRSE Seminar"
start_date: 2026-02-20
location: virtual
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

On **Friday, 20th February** at 11:00 CET, [**Dirk Feuchter**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dirk-feuchter-865b2961/) from the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology will join us at the HiRSE Seminar Series to talk about **“Before Distributing Research Software - Impulses from an RSE&TTO-Perspective”**
<!--more-->

**Abstract**:  
Before distributing research software, several considerations arise from both Research Software Engineering (RSE) and Technology Transfer Office (TTO) perspective. This talk addresses scenarios where RSEs approach the TTO to exploit and license RSE’s software to industry partners, spin-offs, or to explore via open-source business models. Let us outline the minimum requirements for a license-compliant software distribution and discuss whether RSEs can proactively collaborate on these preparations. Drawing on a common contribution to deRSE25, initial lessons learned will be shared, including essential information for source code files and tools such as Reuse and Fossology that might support for compliance. Finally, we highlight how to deal with emerging regulations like the Cyber Resilience Act or the new Product Liability Directive. The seminar is intended to encourage discussion on integrating compliance tools into development workflows to enhance sustainability and value of our research software developments.


The announcement and connection details are posted here:

* HiRSE-internal HiRSE Mattermorst channel,
* HIFIS Mattermost channel,
* Helmholtz Open Science Mattermost channel, 
* FZJ-internal #rse Rocket.Chat channel,
* de-RSE mailing list and de-RSE Mattermost channel,
* Helmholtz Open Science Pro Mailinglist,
* RSE mailing lists of the HiRSE partners (if any). 

If you are unable to join via one of these channels please email hirse@fz-juelich.de.
